So you first step out with one foot, and
then you pump your hips up.
>> [laughter]
>> Very good.
Don't be confused.
>> [music]
[music]
>> It didn't really mean anything because
there was no social media marketing,
there were no brands who were investing
money into content creators. Like all of
that didn't exist.
>> [music]
>> My first brand deal, which was for an
organic tea company, and it was like 50
euros for one post.
>> 15? 50?
>> 50. 5 0 euros for one post, which I was
very proud.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> I was very proud. So, that was my first
deal after like 3 or 4 years on social
media.
>> Did you figure out the fitness path at
the beginning, or you kind of do like
everything, and then the talk-less part,
like fitness video, kind of blow out?
>> So, the first YouTube video was maybe
with 18 or something. A friend of mine,
he was into filming videos. I was into
fitness, and we were like, "Aha, let's
film a fitness video together." But,
there wasn't like a big strategy behind
it. And, the not talking part, I was
thinking about it from the beginning,
and I thought, "Okay, it's so annoying
if you always watch the same video.
>> Uh-huh.
>> Let's say this is your favorite ab
workout. You've watched it like 20
times, and you can just remember by
heart what the person is saying, because
that's what I experienced myself. After
like doing them 20 or 30 times, like,
"Oh gosh, like
I same thing all the time. I know what
she's saying.
>> don't want to hear that talking part,
right?
>> Yeah, I thought okay, listening to music
would be maybe better.
>> Yeah, this wasn't like a sitting down
decision. It wasn't a strategy that I
wrote down. It was just more of a gut
feeling and okay, let's do it without
talking. And then over time this was
actually my signature thing. People
said, yeah, she's like the one with the
good fitness videos and she's not
talking.
>> Not talking. Yes, your thing. Wow,
that's nice you figured out yourself.
>> It just kind of just happened because on
Instagram I'm talking a lot. So over
time on YouTube and also on Bilibili
people were thinking like does she have
a weird voice or why is she not really
[laughter] talking? Like why is she not
talking in the videos? However, I'm a
very talkative person and I love to
talk.
>> You love to talk.
>> But I mean in hindsight it was a very
good decision because that's how
everything became so global.
>> What's the biggest change in your
mindset when you become famous? For
example, like when you were on the cover
of Forbes for you, right?
>> big milestone.
>> It felt more like a a word like a badge
for me. The biggest mindset change was
probably when I saw how many people are
actually in real life. For example, when
I was at festivals and I was training
with so many people at once. I was like
okay, wow, there was like a lot of
people in front of me. If you are just
alone at home posting, you see the
numbers, but you don't really visualize
how many people that are.
>> When you walk on the street, do people
recognize you? Do you feel like oh, I
got famous? Do you do you have that kind
of feeling? At some place?
>> They have always kind of recognized me
because my hometown is rather small. So,
even in the beginning when I was
becoming famous, I had the situation.
However, the mood has totally changed.
Before the pandemic, people like, "Ah,
have you seen Pamela Reif?"
>> [laughter]
>> So, I felt more uncomfortable with it.
They were just like saying like, "Ah,
she's over there." And however, after
the pandemic, people were very
open-minded. They really wanted to come
to me to say, "You saved my time because
I was training with you every day."
>> Okay.
>> Suddenly, it was super friendly. People
were like running up to me sometimes,
smiling, crying, whatever, telling me
like super personal stories about what
happened with them when they were
training with me at home, how much
weight they lost, how much happier they
got, how the mental health improved,
like so many topics. And that's a change
that was really nice for me because I
felt like, "Okay, now I have a real
purpose and I can continue doing that
because I'm working on a purpose."
>> Wow. Across the globe, which country
have the craziest fans?
>> China.
>> China. Okay.
>> Okay. [laughter]
Good to know.
>> Chinese people are kind of shy. It's not
like super open, but they
>> are way more open than
>> Oh, okay.
>> Yes, [laughter] because I don't come all
the time.
>> How often do you come to China right
now?
>> Like two or three times per year, maybe.
And I think they really appreciate when
I'm coming and they know it's like their
chance to say something to me or come up
to me or ask for a picture, whatever.
So, whenever they see me here, they're
like extremely happy and they're also
very open about showing that happiness.
I feel like in China, the first time I
came here, I actually said to my team
like, "Wow, are those people like real?
Did you organize them to come here?" In
Germany, I'm still not used to like
people running to a place, like
gathering up for me and then screaming
my name.
>> Okay.
>> Germans aren't so open about their
happiness. I always put it like that.
>> Yeah.
>> But in China, they're like screaming and
they're happy and they're That's really
cool actually.
>> Yeah, I like the vibe because it feels
like there is more happiness in the
room.
I was in Germany and then a Chinese
student who was studying in my hometown,
she came up to me saying like, "Oh, have
a look, actually you're famous in
China."
>> You didn't know that back
>> know. But I [laughter] also didn't know
that you have separate platforms.
>> You didn't know that.
>> I I just thought, "Okay, you're
consuming YouTube as well, maybe." And I
was like, "Okay." And she was like,
"No." She showed me
>> Yeah.
>> takes your videos from the European
platforms and uploads them in China,
which are separate platforms. I was
like, "Oh, that's interesting." I texted
my business partner who funny enough
also studied Chinese in the past, which
is a very
>> And the business partner was not in
China and nothing to do with China right
now.
>> I worked on my European projects with
him and his name is Ali.
>> [laughter]
>> And I was like, "Ali, that's very
interesting. And somebody just showed me
that I have millions of clicks in
China." And he's like, "Yeah,
interesting. I studied Chinese in the
past." So that's like a whole other
>> [laughter]
>> We were just watching it because I was
like, "Yeah, that's exactly my purpose.
I want to create workout videos that are
accessible for everybody out there. If
you want to take my videos, take my
videos. If you want to train with them,
train with them because they are for
free anyways. Everybody can train with
them." We only changed took over in
China when those fake profiles were
starting to make marketing on my behalf
and they were selling products on my
behalf. So we [clears throat] then went
into the platforms. I showed them my
passport.
>> [laughter]
>> And then we were able to take over the
accounts and really start my own ones
and that's when everything kind of
became very big.
>> Okay. Do you have an idea across the
globe which country do you have like
most followers? America, Europe, China?
Like do you have a breakdown?
>> So China's definitely the biggest one.
>> China's the biggest.
>> China's the biggest. 74, 75 million in
China, which is definitely the biggest.
Outside of China, the biggest ones are
Germany and Austria and Switzerland. We
call it the DACH.
DACH is like Germany, Austria,
Switzerland. And then, what's also big
is all of the countries around. So,
France, Spain, Belgium, Netherlands,
Poland, and the US is also quite big.
What's funny about my different markets,
for example, recently I posted a
beginner standing legs and abs video,
and in Europe it was like not so famous.
In China, it had 25 million views.
>> [laughter]
>> Do you have an idea why those happens?
Like
>> For example, in China, the beginner
videos are very much appreciated. In
Europe,
>> Nobody likes that. [laughter] Not
nobody.
>> But less people. [clears throat]
Sometimes I post something in one market
and it's like, "Ugh." And in the other
market it blows up like crazy. It's
really different in the specific
markets. However, dance workouts are
loved everywhere.
>> Everywhere.
>> Do you think like people from different
country would have different ways of
looking at a better body shape? For
example, you know, in China, there's a
saying that people like to be lean and
slim.
>> Yeah, definitely. I mean, you can see
that from the weight videos. The muscle
building, taking big dumbbell videos are
not so famous in China, but in Europe
and let's say in South America,
>> [laughter]
>> it's very like, it's very wanted. Bigger
muscles, a bigger booty, and all of
that. From my perspective, in China,
they want to be a bit more slim, and
they want to have thinner legs and
thinner arms. And in Europe, it would be
like, "Oh, I want to see the muscle
definition. Like, I want to see more of
the muscles." I mean, the tendency is
it's kind of the same, but then also
kind of different, yeah.
>> So, do you pivot your video based on
what people like in different areas, or
you just do what you like?
>> Um not so much. Let's say, if I really
wanted to, I would probably take a leg
workout, and in Europe I would name it
the toned leg workout. We don't, but I
was just I was just thinking about it,
actually. In Europe, [laughter] you
could. In China, you would say it's the
slim leg workout. That's something we
could potentially do.
>> You've You've not [laughter] done it
yet. But good idea.
>> You can Yeah, okay.
>> Because you know, you you do those
fitness video, it can be a motivation
for people to follow along and get
healthier. Like it can also get to a
point where create some anxiety or
pressure where people have to have this
perfect body shape. What do you think of
that and how do you make a balance
between?
>> Mhm. I think as a woman, I mean, in the
end, probably everybody nowadays, you
always had kind of an idol. When there
was no social media, it was people on
the magazine or it was people in movies
or it was the models on the catwalk.
Like you always had somebody you were
looking up to or you were thinking, "Oh,
she has a very good body. Yeah. If I
train, maybe I will get to a similar
shape." What I think is amazing about
fitness and like the videos that I
provide is maybe people start because
they think, "Oh, I want to look like
her." But then when you start, you
automatically become happier with
yourself. I always say, maybe the
initial motivation is wrong because you
strive to be somebody else. But then if
you get stronger yourself, you also get
more confident in your own body and then
you're happier with your own better body
and you're happier with how your body is
changing. Very naturally, you focus more
on yourself and less on the other
people. It's most of the times the
people that don't do anything
>> [laughter]
>> that sit at home and just watch pictures
of somebody else. They most of the times
kind of compare themselves too much. But
as soon as somebody is really stepping
in and working on themselves, the focus
kind of shifts, which is very good in my
opinion. However, social media itself, I
think can be quite tricky nowadays.
>> Yeah.
>> Depending on your algorithm also. Some
people have social media and they only
see cat videos. So it's
So it's also you on like what do you
click, what do you consume. That's what
your algorithm will show you. And you
can build your algorithm into any kind
of direction. So I think social media
can be, depending on how your social
media is, can be quite tricky and maybe
for some people bring up anxiety in them
etc. But it's also your own
responsibility
to really set a boundary and maybe close
social media at one point and live life
outside, touch some grass, live in
reality, go to a beach, go to a swimming
pool and see real people and not only
people on social media. You have to have
a lot of responsibility nowadays to
really stay with yourself and stay
happy. However, I'm trying to motivate
people [music] to be stronger in their
own body. You first step out with one
foot and then you pump your hips up.
Come from the side and you shake the hip
to the front like a cheerleader.
Yes.
That's good.
That's good. And don't forget about the
hip.
Yes, shake and shake and shake and
shake. Very [music] good.
>> [laughter]
>> Don't be confused.
And a little mini squat when you go to
the side so we have more of the side.
Yes. Have you practiced before? That
looks amazing.
>> [laughter]
>> If you want to, you can then do like a
big back bend.
Sometimes you see older people in the
park. They also do this, right?
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, they always do this but it's a
very good move. Oh, I see some sweat.
>> Yeah, I sweat a lot.
>> [laughter]
>> Cuz I wanted to give you the chance to
use the lighter weight. So So I'm the
one who suffers now.
>> [laughter]
>> Never take a break. That's like one rule
in a Pam workout.
Never take a break.
>> [laughter]
>> My shoulders are dying.
>> [music]
[laughter]
>> Very good.
>> Thank you.
>> [music]
>> Could you maybe give us an introduction
about what your business is like? What
are the parts which is bigger than the
others? For example, your branded
products, the YouTube videos, your app,
>> Yeah.
>> your books, you had your agency, and
[laughter] what like investment like
Could you maybe give me like a clearer
picture of that?
>> Okay, so everything started with the
social media, which is still very big,
which is still something I do every
single day. And then also my Pam app,
which is also social media, I guess, but
my own app. I post healthy recipes every
single week, and all of the workout
plans. Then my brands, I have Naturally
Pam, which are the food products, and
Ela, which are the hair products, which
is mostly mainly in Germany and the
countries around it. Still pretty local.
We have tried it in China now. However,
to expand it, we need a more
China-specific strategy. At first, we
thought, "Okay, we can just take the
products and bring them to China, and
everything is perfect." But that's not
the case.
>> It's not the case. And also Chinese
people, they don't snack protein bars as
often as we do in Europe. Like we eat
that all the time, all day long. In
China, it's quite different, and that's
something we had to learn over time. Um
now I'm also working on the agency side.
I'm part in an agency that we founded,
and we manage other content creators. We
help them build their brands, but we
also advise companies if they want to do
influencer marketing. So it's like a
360-degree marketing solution.
>> Yeah, um
so that's that. And what else?
>> Sometimes I forget about stuff.
>> There's just so many things. Oh, yeah,
investments, yeah. Angel investments in
other startups and companies that I
believe in.
>> Oh my god. If you are comfortable
sharing, could you maybe give me a
contacts? What is the revenue split?
Which business is larger? Maybe a
percentage?
>> Like social media-wise, I would still
say Europe makes like 60-70%.
>> That's in terms of
>> Like brand deals, collaborations. Also,
because for example, on YouTube, you get
paid for the views. So, I would still
say Europe makes the big majority of the
money. China is still a good amount of
money, but not as big as in Europe.
Naturally, Pam makes about 15 million
revenue per year. The Pam app, oh, I
cannot tell you the revenue, but we have
6 million downloads.
>> So, the biggest parts would be the
social media, the the products, and the
Pam app.
>> Yes, those are the biggest ones.
>> Why did you choose like snack and hair
product instead of like clothing because
you you do fitness? Kind of makes sense
for you to have your own brands, right?
So, is there a logic where you choose
your product category?
>> So, why I didn't do clothing had two
reasons. One reason was my parents and
my mom, they were always in the fashion
industry in the past. They had their own
fashion store, they went to all of the
fashion weeks. So, that was kind of part
of my life already. And I know that it's
quite
demanding to always have new collections
every single season.
>> Ah.
>> And if I created fitness clothing, you
always need to have something new. And
new collection in new colorway, and new
sports bra, and new tights, shorts,
whatever. There always has to be
something new because it's consumed. But
you wait for the new season, and then
there has to be something new. And for
[laughter] for the protein bars and the
bars, if it's good and if people love
it, they will consume it now and also in
2 years. They don't want it to change
all the time. So, I basically have to
build a good product once, and it can
sell for a long time. Of course, we
change the texture over time. It was
becoming softer. Like you kind of
optimize, however you don't need to
rebuild everything. So I thought for me
it's just less stressful.
>> [laughter]
>> And I don't want to I don't want to
design something new every two or three
months.
>> Do you don't argue on problems? And do
they ever happen?
>> No. I mean sometimes maybe we argue but
the arguments are very quick because we
are all like very rational. We we just
know what the end goal is. So we are not
emotionally involved into those topics
so much. And my brother always says he
knows who the boss is.
>> [laughter]
>> So did you make all the decisions or
>> I ask for their opinion and I really
appreciate their opinion but in the end
I'm very and I I will ask for opinions
if I need them but in the end I have a
very strong gut feeling about what I
want.
>> Cuz your IP is you. You got to manage
what the image in front of people.
>> Yes.
>> Ah.
>> I just work a lot.
>> You just work a lot. Okay.
>> [laughter]
>> Do you think you are a rational person
or have you ever tested for your MBTI
personality test?
>> We definitely have many
>> ISTJ J
>> What does that mean?
>> Critical thinking, attention to detail,
and very rational. Judging meaning you
you plan everything and
>> a robot.
>> Okay. Like [laughter] a like a robot.
Okay.
>> Which is interesting because most of the
important decisions I always judge on my
gut feeling. Gut feeling is my approach
to number one and then afterwards in
execution I may be like a robot but but
it's a very good mixture out of gut
feeling and robot.
>> Because right now you are in the
business for more than 10 years. What do
you see yourself in the next 10 years?
What do you think your business would
expand from here?
>> I mean I simply don't know. I have to
say I don't know because I think social
media is very quick to change. So I was
never in my life like not at a single
point a person to have like one big goal
and I was like okay I have to reach it.
I was never like that. I was more like
okay I wake up every single day. I have
nice ideas every single day and I work
disciplined and I change my way all the
time. And in the end I arrive at a goal
and I'm like oh that was actually a cool
goal.
>> [laughter]
>> So yeah that was always my strategy.
Wake up every single day be disciplined
and work and it will lead you somewhere
and like oh that was something I never
expected but it's good.
>> Oh so I'm thinking about your business
models or you're basically having those
free videos to gain tractions and then
the app more engagement and then the
products. Is that kind of the final?
>> That's the final yeah.
>> It's very interesting. So many things
that I built and there was never like a
very hard strategy behind it. Also China
happened without any strategy
>> [laughter]
>> and it's now ginormous for me. So yeah.
>> [music]
>> Is there anything you wanted to do in
the China market?
>> I think I would really like to build a
brand China specifically that really
hits the spot in China because I think
in China I'm right now famous for the
fitness videos and then I do brand deals
but I don't have this reputation of okay
she's a business woman yet. And in
Europe I'm very
>> Do you want to be?
>> Yes, because it that's what I am
actually. And in Europe that's how I'm
perceived. Like people don't say oh,
she's the fitness trainer. If I'm like
introduced on stage, people say she's
the businesswoman. And I feel like I
have not reached that point in China
yet. So I think that's something I would
like to change in China because that's
how I feel internally.
>> From a content creator to a
entrepreneur, which role do you think
you enjoy the most? Is it like building
content or product or business?
>> Right now I probably enjoy building
business a bit too much because the
content part is suffering.
>> [laughter]
>> In the end the day has like 24 hours. So
if you put a lot of focus on one, of
course something else will kind of
suffer. Sometimes I think do people
think I'm lazy because I'm not posting
every day anymore? Because that's what I
did in the past. But I'm working on
different stuff. So I really enjoy the
work behind the camera and in meetings
and in the office. That's why maybe the
content creation is a little bit
suffering sometimes.
>> So you've witnessed the social media
evolution in the past 10 years. What do
you think is the biggest change right
now compared to 10 years ago?
>> So I think 10 years ago social media was
a very
happy and inspirational place.
>> Okay.
>> It is still, but I think back then you
opened up the app and it was like oh,
inspiration, pretty pictures. It was
like a an app that I opened to let my
mind just shift. Nowadays social media
is really demanding a lot of your
attention and is very dramatic. The
first seconds of a video have to be
catchy. There is drama and gossip,
people judging other people. It's like
it's a bit more intense. And I think
that also plays a role in why people
think okay, social media is not good for
my mental health
>> Mhm.
>> because social media has changed.
>> I think your content or product or
building around a healthy lifestyle. So
how do you define a healthy lifestyle?
>> Oh, a healthy lifestyle can be so many
things. I think the basis of every
healthy lifestyle is sleeping enough.
>> Sleeping enough.
>> People always think they need to do more
and more workouts and more this and more
tasks, but if your sleep isn't settled,
all the rest is not so important. So, I
think sleep is the most important. A
couple of years ago, I was working all
the time. I was going to bed at like
2:00 a.m. in the morning, never sleeping
enough. And then I kind of noticed, wait
a second, I'm preaching a healthy
lifestyle. I have to sleep more to be
healthy. And then I changed to going to
bed before midnight. So, that has
definitely changed for me. I mean, when
you get older, you kind of you notice
>> [laughter]
>> you notice that you need more sleep. In
the beginning of my 20s, I didn't care
if I had enough sleep, and now it's
like, oh, I definitely need a good night
of sleep tonight, right? So, sleeping is
very important. Then, obviously, what
you eat every day because you are what
you eat, aka you are what you digest.
So, your gut health is important, and
also what you eat, which definitely
influences each other. And that's also
why I pay so much attention and put so
much effort into the recipes because you
can train a lot, but if you don't
nourish yourself, if you don't eat well,
it's not the perfect basis. However, in
China, I know the nutrition is very
different to what we have in Europe.
>> [laughter]
>> So, um yeah, that's why the food content
is a bit different here. And then, of
course, moving your body because in the
end we are stuck on our laptop, and we
have this and we look at our phone like
this. So, it's very important to train
and open up the body again and get
stronger. I really enjoy being a strong
woman. I really enjoy lifting stuff and
like lifting the heavy suitcase and
putting it there. I really want to be
strong myself. So, I know it's also
quite different between Europe and
China, but I really enjoy this
>> You mean strong like physically and
mentally?
>> and mentally. My Chinese followers
always like, how do you have so much
energy? I'm like, tired, and I cannot do
the work it's and I'm tired. And I think
if you only want to be slim and lean,
you maybe don't eat enough, and you
maybe don't eat well, and you don't eat
all the nutrients and vitamins that you
need as well.
>> And then you don't have
>> And then you don't have energy. It's a
very basic mathematical [laughter]
calculation. Maybe that's why they don't
have energy. So that's why I always push
like you have to eat enough to fuel your
training also. And then obviously you
can do supplements, you can
detoxifications and whatever and that's
also something I'm really into and that
can really put the cherry on the
>> top.
>> live healthy cake. Nervous system
regulation, there are so many things you
have to take care of.
>> Good to know. I think you have your
topic like for the next 10 years then.
>> Since a lot of influencers, they have
ups and downs and they may be out of
business in 3 years, why do you think
you can be relevant for the past 10
years?
>> Very good question. First of all, I'm
very thankful that I'm relevant for so
such a long time, but I think the basis
of that is really that I provide content
that people will use in their life.
Because me as a personality, I'm might
not be interesting anymore to them in
their life because they have so many
topics going on. But if they want to use
my content, if it's a workout video, if
they want to consume a protein bar, if
they use my shampoo, if they have
something of me that they use in their
own life, I think that's how I
>> You're useful to them.
>> Yeah, because I'm useful to them.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Opportunities will always come to you
and then you have to say yes or no to
them, but I don't really go [music] out
and really search for an opportunity
because I feel like if I'm motivated and
I work very disciplined on myself,
[music]
life will kind of come to you.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah.
>> That's a beautiful saying.
>> What you going to do [music] when your
circuit's being burned?
>> That's what I say.
>> [music]
>> Wait.
Wait.